.TH YUBIKEY-FDE 8 "2015-04-14" Linux "Yubikey full-disk-encryption"
.SH NAME
yubikey-fde \- Challenge-response based FDE with Yubikeys, cryptsetup(8) and systemd(1)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yubikey-fde
allows storing disk encryption keys for use with
.B cryptsetup(8)
on a Yubikey. It requires disk decryption to be handled by
.B systemd(1)
because it sends decryption keys in response to
.B systemd-ask-password(1)
queries.
.PP
A requirement for full-disk-encryption is that the program can run early enough in the
boot process to handle decryption of the root disk.
 To handle this yubikey-fde needs to be added to the initial ramdisk.
.PP
.SS "Arch Linux"
 On Arch Linux creating the initramfs is handled by
.B mkinitcpio(8)
which yubikey-fde supports by default. If the program is installed correctly, a hook
named
.B ykfde
should be present. This hook is then placed in the mkinitcpio configuration, where it
should be inserted after the
.B sd-encrypt
hook. Using systemd inside the ramdisk is a requirement.
.PP
.SS "RedHat / CentOS / Fedora"
 These systems use
.B dracut(8)
for building the initial ramdisk. If yubikey-fde is installed properly, the dracut
module to embed it in the ramdisk will be placed in
.I /usr/lib/dracut/modules.d/98ykfde/
and it should be possible to regenerate the ramdisk using
.PP
.RS
dracut -vf
.RE
.PP
Refer to
.B dracut(8)
for more information about this process.
.PP
.SS "Enrolling"
 To enroll a disk for use with yubikey-fde a challenge file needs to be created. The
.B yubikey-fde-enroll(8)
script can be used to create the initial challenge, after which the resulting key needs
to be added to the LUKS device using
.B cryptsetup(8).
 After enrolling, it is simple to test whether yubikey-fde functions correctly. The
program should be started with administrator privileges and a password should be
requested from it using
.B systemd-ask-password(1)
like so:
.PP
.RS
systemd-ask-password --no-tty "Please enter passphrase for disk test..."
.RE
.PP
yubikey-fde-enroll should respond to this request and the previously created passphrase
should be returned.
.SH FILES
.B "/etc/yubikey-fde/"
 This folder stores challenge files created by
.B yubikey-fde-enroll(8)
and might contain additional configuration in the future.
.SH NOTES
This tool is pending support for several mission-critical features, such as automatically
replacing challenges after successful boots. Track the progress of these in the source
repository at
.I https://github.com/tazjin/yubikey-fde
.SH SEE ALSO
systemd(1), systemd-ask-password(1), ykchalresp(1) initrd(4), cryptsetup(8), dracut(8),
mkinitcpio(8)
.SH AUTHOR
Vincent Ambo <tazjin@gmail.com>
